# MSDS-7331-Machine-Learning-1

Credit card companies are always in search of better ways to monitor borrowers to determine if the credit card borrower will default on their credit card payments or make them in full. Defaulted credit card payments are often difficult to recoup and create losses for these companies. Defaulting on a payment is defined as not meeting the debt obligation (which is the credit card payment). Our dataset is composed of 24 attributes and 30,000 records that reflect a Taiwanese credit card borrower’s payment history over a six month period.The data was pulled from UCI machine learning repository. The purpose of the dataset is to provide attributes at different points in their payment history to identify if a credit card borrower will default on their payments or pay in full. Since the dataset captures six payment periods, it gives the credit card firm a chance to identify if default will occur or not in various billing cycles. The effectiveness of a good classification algorithm is one that produces strong accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity scores through cross validation. If an effective classification model can be built, the credit company will have the ability to proactively monitor borrowers in various credit stages. The significance of identifying default or not will allow the credit card to minimize their losses. If early default identification occurs, the credit card company can reduce the borrower’s credit limits or preemptively work with the borrower to create new repayment plans. Both outcomes will help the credit company reduce their losses that would occur if no action were taken.
